2001 Feb
11289617
Intraoperative computed tomography with the mobile CT Tomoscan M during surgical treatment of orbital fractures.
Up to now it has only been possible to monitor the alignment of orbital floor fractures postoperatively with a computed tomography (CT) examination with coronal sectioning. If this showed an incorrect positioning, renewed surgery and anaesthetics were often required. The purpose of this study was the implementation and definition of the spectrum of indications for intraoperative CT examinations while keeping patient radiation exposure to a minimum. Thirty-two orbital fracture cases were examined pre- and intraoperatively using the mobile computer tomograph Tomoscan M in coronal sectioning. In this patient collective, 12 cases showed an isolated orbital floor fracture and twenty cases an orbital floor fracture associated with a zygomatic fracture. The technical prerequisite for these examinations was the construction of a suitable radiolucent operating table which permitted coronal sections to be made with the CT-Gantry tilted. The authors aimed to reduce radiation exposure by optimizing the technical setting parameters and closely defining the scan region for the operator. In three of 32 cases there were no surgical indications following clinical and preoperative CT examination. In three of the 20 cases with associated zygomatic fracture a closed reduction with a reduction hook was carried out, and no revision was necessary after the intraoperative CT examination. In 26 cases an open reduction was carried out. Of these open reduced fractures, four had to be revised after intraoperative CT monitoring; one of the isolated orbital floor fractures and three of those associated with a zygomatic fracture. Intraoperative CT monitoring of orbital floor fractures is considered a useful surgical aid. Its advantages are immediate monitoring of the surgical reduction, the presence of the surgeon during scanning enabling him to determine directly the relevant sections to scan, and the resulting radiation exposure.
