2001 Dec
11742175
Regulation of matrix metalloproteinases in a model of colonic wound healing in a rabbit.
Matrix metalloproteinases occur in the colon at an anastomosis but not in the normal colon. Matrix metalloproteinase synthesis can be regulated by cytokines, for example interleukin-1 beta and growth factors, such as transforming growth factor beta and basic fibroblast growth factor. The aim of this study was to investigate the regulation of matrix metalloproteinases at an anastomosis by identifying the cell types that synthesize matrix metalloproteinases, examining factors that might regulate their synthesis, determining whether they occur in an active form, and assessing the effect of suture type on these parameters. An anastomosis was formed in the distal colon of rabbits using either polyglactin or polydioxanone and the animals were killed six hours or seven days later. The distribution of matrix metalloproteinases and cytokines and the cell types were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Matrix metalloproteinase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-3, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 were detected also by zymography. Immunohistochemistry showed that matrix metalloproteinases were restricted to the suture line. Although zymography demonstrated that matrix metalloproteinase-2 was present mainly in an active form, matrix metalloproteinase-9 and matrix metalloproteinase-3 were present in the pro-form. The active form of matrix metalloproteinase-3 occurred more often in the polydioxanone-sutured rabbits. With the exception of matrix metalloproteinase-9, the matrix metalloproteinases were synthesized by fibroblasts. Interleukin-1 beta and transforming growth factor beta were more widespread than in the normal colon and were localized adjacent to the matrix metalloproteinases. Basic fibroblast growth factor was also more widespread postoperatively but occurred deeper in the anastomosis than the matrix metalloproteinases. This study has shown that interleukin-1 beta and transforming growth factor beta may regulate the synthesis of the matrix metalloproteinases by fibroblasts and that minor differences that occur in the matrix metalloproteinase profile are dependent on the suture type.
