2003 Apr
12618615
Lengthening the nose with a tongue-and-groove technique.
Lengthening the short nose is often a major task. The ability to maintain proper alignment between the nasal base and dorsum may prove difficult without sacrificing the suppleness of the former. In this article, the authors introduce a technique of nose lengthening that ensures alignment of the tip with the rest of the nose yet avoids tip rigidity, unless a significant increase in tip projection is also planned. Two spreader grafts are placed, one on either side of the septum, and are extended beyond the caudal septal angle proportional to the planned nasal lengthening. A columella strut, with the cephalocaudal dimension equaling the combination of the width of the existing medial crura plus the amount of planned nasal lengthening, is placed between the medial crura in continuity with the caudal septum and is fixed to the medial crura using 5-0 clear nylon or polydioxanone suture. If additional projection beyond what is achievable by mere placement of a columella strut is required, the strut is fixed to the spreader grafts in a more projected position. Otherwise, the columella strut is simply positioned between the extensions of the spreader grafts. It is necessary to mobilize the lower lateral cartilages to prevent excessive columella show. This procedure has been performed on 23 patients over the past 12.5 years, with 20 patients enjoying good-to-excellent results. The advantages of this technique include its predictability and reproducibility, and the ability to elongate the nose with a mobile nasal base that is in line with the rest of the nose. If suture fixation is used to gain more projection, the technique proves dependable but the nose will become more rigid than is optimal. The requirement of three pieces of properly shaped septal cartilage, which might not be available when a secondary rhinoplasty is performed, is the major disadvantage of this operation. Furthermore, the procedure is, to some degree, labor-intensive.
