2005 Mar
15719390
Safety of donor right hepatectomy without abdominal drainage: a prospective evaluation in 100 consecutive liver donors.
Although the role of routine abdominal drainage after liver resection for tumors has been questioned, abdominal drainage after donor right hepatectomy for live donor liver transplantation (LDLT) has been a routine practice in most transplant centers. The present study aimed to evaluate the safety of the procedure without abdominal drainage. A prospective study was performed on 100 consecutive liver donors who underwent right hepatectomy for LDLT from July 2000 to September 2003. Biliary anatomy was carefully studied with intraoperative cholangiography using fluoroscopy. The middle hepatic vein was included in the graft in all except 1 patient. Parenchymal transection was performed using an ultrasonic dissector. The right hepatic duct was transected at the hilum and the stump was closed with 6-O polydioxanone continuous suture. Absence of bile leakage was confirmed with methylene blue solution instilled through the cystic duct stump. The abdomen was closed after careful hemostasis without drainage in all donors. The median age of the donors was 36 years (range 18-56 years). Median operative blood loss and operating time were 350 mL (range 42-1,400 mL) and 7.5 hours (range 5.2-10.7 hours), respectively. None of the donors required any blood or blood product transfusion. There was no operative mortality. The median postoperative hospital stay was 8 days (range 5-30 days). Postoperative morbidity occurred in 19 patients (19%), most of which were minor complications. No donor experienced bile leakage, intraabdominal bleeding, or collection. None required surgical, radiologic, or endoscopic intervention for postoperative complications, except for 1 donor who developed late biliary stricture that required endoscopic dilatation. All donors were well with a median follow-up of 32 months (range 11-50 months). In conclusion, with detailed study of the biliary anatomy and meticulous surgical technique, donor right hepatectomy can be safely performed without abdominal drainage. Abdominal drainage is not a mandatory procedure after donor hepatectomy in LDLT.
