NA 
15791971
Laparoscopic "Dome-down" cholecystectomy with the LCS-5 Harmonic scalpel.
Misidentification of ductal anatomy and electrocautery injuries are complications associated with laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Dome-down LC creates a 360-degree view of the gallbladder-cystic duct junction, reducing the risk for anatomy misidentification. In addition, ultrasonic instrumentation eliminates the risk for electrocautery injuries. This study assessed the feasibility and safety of dome-down LC combined with ultrasound technology. Patients with noncancerous gallbladder disease were enrolled consecutively. Gallbladders were classified by clarity (Class I to IV) of anatomy and pathology (acute, chronic, or acalculous). The gallbladder was dissected from the gallbladder bed using a dome-down technique, and the cystic artery was coagulated and transected with the LCS-5 Harmonic scalpel (Ethicon Endo-Surgery Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio). The cystic duct was ligated with 2-polydioxanone Endoloops size 2-0 and sharply divided, leaving one Endoloop on the cystic duct stump. LC was successfully completed in 105 patients (mean age, 44 years; range, 18 to 91 years) in whom the anatomy was classified as Class I in 30 (29%) patients, Class II in 42 (38%), Class III in 25 (24%), and Class IV in 8 (8%). Gallbladder dissection time ranged from 8 to 42 minutes (mean, 18 min). The operating room time ranged from 32 to 128 minutes (mean, 55 min). Two gallbladder perforations occurred, but no complications were associated with the extrahepatic biliary tree, viscera, or major blood vessels. Elective conversion occurred in 8 (7.6%) patients due to poor visualization of anatomy because of inflammation and adhesions. Patient blood loss was minimal in all cases. No postoperative complications were observed after a 6-month follow-up. Dome-down laparoscopic cholecystectomy with the LCS-5 Harmonic scalpel decreases the potential for misidentification of ductal anatomy, has minimal complications, and eliminates electrocautery risks. Conversion is related to poor visualization of anatomy due to inflammation and adhesions.
