2013 Jul
23443478
A retrospective analysis of early and late outcome of biodegradable stent placement in the management of refractory anastomotic colorectal strictures.
Benign colorectal strictures are treated conventionally by endoscopic dilation. Experience using SEMS for benign colonic strictures is limited, and outcomes to date have been disappointing. Refractory colorectal strictures remain challenging to be treated with surgery. Polydioxanone-based stent are biodegradable (BD) stent CE approved for esophageal strictures. This study was designed to investigate retrospectively the safety and the efficacy of these stents for the management of strictures refractory to multiple sessions of dilation. Patients with postsurgical benign strictures located within 20 cm from anal verge, refractory to mechanical or pneumatic dilation (at least 3 sessions) were included in this analysis. Clinical success was defined as the absence of occlusive symptoms and the ability to pass through the stricture with a regular size colonoscope. All patients were predilated before stent placement. Stents were released under fluoroscopic control. All patients were under stool softeners for 3 months. Follow-up was scheduled with endoscopic and fluoroscopic controls within 90 days from stent deployment and afterwards by telephone interview and/or ambulatory consultation. Eleven patients (7 males, mean age 62.3 ± 8.5 years) were included. Technical success was achieved in all the patients. Stent migration was observed in four patients within the first 2 weeks after stent placement. Stent migration was followed by recurrence of stricture and obstructive symptoms in all the cases. Among the seven patients who completed the process of stent biodegradation, five of them had complete resolution of the stricture and relief of symptoms. Two of 11 patients required surgical treatment during the follow-up period (mean 19.8 (range 42-15) months). The overall success rate of the BD stent was 45 %. This retrospective analysis of a limited number of patients demonstrated that nondedicated esophageal BD stents are associated with high risk of migration and clinical success in less than 50 % of patients. Dedicated stents with large diameter and antimigration findings could potentially improve the outcome of patients with refractory benign colorectal strictures.
