2015 
25720384
Polyvinylidene Fluoride as a Suture Material: Evaluation of Comet Tail-Like Infiltrate and Foreign Body Granuloma.
Biocompatibility and tissue integration of a surgical suture are decisive factors for wound healing and therefore for the success of sutures. The optimal suture material is still under discussion. Polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) is described to have superior properties of biocompatibility and is therefore frequently used as a mesh component. Only little information is available about its use as a suture material. The aim of this study was to evaluate the biocompatibility of PVDF as a suture material in comparison to 5 different established sutures in a rat model. In 30 male rats, a monofilamental PVDF suture (Resopren®) and 5 established control suture materials [polyester (Miralene®), polytetrafluoroethylene (Gore®), poliglecaprone (Monocryl®), polydioxanone (Monoplus®), polyglactin 910 (Vicryl®), USP size 3-0] were placed in the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal wall without knot or tension. After 3, 7 or 21 days, the abdominal walls were explanted for histopathological and immunohistochemical investigation with special regard to the size and quality of foreign body granuloma and the length of the comet tail-like infiltrate (CTI). The PVDF sutures showed the smallest size of foreign body granuloma (60 ± 14 µm) and the smallest CTI length (343 ± 60 µm) of all polymers after 21 days. Only PVDF (Resopren) and polydioxanone (Monoplus) showed a significant collagen I/III ratio increase between days 3 and 21 (p = 0.009 and p = 0.016). The quality of foreign body reaction regarding inflammation, proliferation and fibrotic remodeling was similar between all suture materials. Our data indicate that monofilamental PVDF sutures show a favorable foreign body reaction with small granuloma sizes and CTI length in comparison to established sutures. Its use as a suture material in general surgery could therefore be extended in the future. To reinforce these findings, further clinical studies need to be conducted.
