2017 Mar
28452709
The use of polydioxanone plates for endoscopic skull base repair.
Many reconstructive techniques and materials have been reported for repair of skull base defects after sinonasal tumor excision, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leaks, and coverage of denuded bone. Synthetic materials have been developed for endoscopic skull base repair to avoid donor-site morbidity. Polydioxanone plate is a bioabsorbable implant designed for nasal septal reconstruction and has the ability to retain strength for at least 10 weeks and absorbs in 6 months. This study aimed to describe the use of polydioxanone plates in endoscopic skull base defect and CSF leak repair, and to describe our experience with the surgical technique and postoperative management. This was a retrospective case series of patients who, between May 2013 and December 2015, underwent endoscopic sinus surgery and skull base repair for CSF leak or after excision of a skull base tumor by using polydioxanone plates. Patients who presented with sinonasal inflammatory disease or skull base tumors underwent endoscopic skull base repair by using polydioxanone plates in an underlay fashion and mucosal membrane grafts with or without adjuvant materials in an overlay fashion. The patients were reviewed at 6 days, 6 weeks, and 3 months after surgery. Postoperative adverse events, including CSF leak, infection, bleeding, headache, and graft failure, were recorded. The cases of seven patients (five women, two men; mean age, 53.9 years) were reviewed. Five patients underwent sinonasal tumor resection and two underwent repair for CSF leak. The mean (standard deviation) defect size was 16.4 ± 11.4 mm. There was no evidence of postoperative CSF leak, and lumbar drains were not used. One patient reported transient headache and facial pressure at the 6-week follow-up visit. The surgeons' experience with polydioxanone plate placement, postoperative healing, and follow-up was satisfactory. Polydioxanone could be used to achieve rigid repair of endoscopic skull base defects. These early results, although promising, require validation in clinical trials.
