2018 01
28602788
Determination of Isthmocele Using a Foley Catheter During Laparoscopic Repair of Cesarean Scar Defect.
To demonstrate a new technique of isthmocele repair via laparoscopic surgery. Case report (Canadian Task Force classification III). The local Ethics Committee waived the requirement for approval. Isthmocele localized at a low uterine segment is a defect of a previous caesarean scar due to poor myometrial healing after surgery [1]. This pouch accumulates menstrual bleeding, which can cause various disturbances and irregularities, including abnormal uterine bleeding, infertility, pelvic pain, and scar pregnancy [2-6]. Given the absence of a clearly defined surgical method in the literature, choosing the proper approach to treating isthmocele can be arduous. Laparoscopy provides a minimally invasive procedure in women with previous caesarean scar defects. A 28-year-old woman, gravida 2 para 2, presented with a complaint of prolonged postmenstrual bleeding for 5 years. She had undergone 2 cesarean deliveries. Transvaginal ultrasonography revealed a hypoechogenic area with menstrual blood in the anterior lower uterine segment. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an isthmocele localized at the anterior left lateral side of the uterus, with an estimated volume of approximately 12 cm<sup>3</sup>. After patient preparation, laparoscopy was performed. To repair the defect, the uterovesical peritoneal fold was incised and the bladder was mobilized from the lower uterine segment. During this surgery, differentiating the isthmocele from the abdomen can be challenging. Here we used a Foley catheter to identify the isthmocele. To do this, after mobilizing the bladder from the lower uterine segment, we inserted a Foley catheter into the uterine cavity through the cervical canal. We then filled the balloon of the catheter at the lower uterine segment under laparoscopic view, which allowed clear identification of the isthmocele pouch. The uterine defect was then incised. The isthmocele cavity was accessed, the margins of the pouch were debrided, and the edges were surgically reapproximated with continuous nonlocking single layer 2-0 polydioxanone sutures. We believed that single-layer suturing could provide for proper healing without necrosis due to suturation. During the procedure, the vesicouterine space was dissected without difficulty. A urine bag was collected with clear urine, and there was no gas leakage; thus, we considered a safety test for the bladder superfluous. Based on concerns about the possible increased risk of adhesions, we did not cover peritoneum over the suture. The patients experienced no associated complications, and she reported complete resolution of prolonged postmenstrual bleeding at a 3-month follow-up. Even though the literature is cloudy in this area, a laparoscopic approach to repairing an isthmocele is a safe and minimally invasive procedure. Our approach described here involves inserting a Foley catheter in the uterine cavity through the cervical canal, then filling the balloon in the lower uterine segment under laparoscopic view to identify the isthmocele.
