2018 
29643810
Localized Delivery of Cl-Amidine From Electrospun Polydioxanone Templates to Regulate Acute Neutrophil NETosis: A Preliminary Evaluation of the PAD4 Inhibitor for Tissue Engineering.
Upon interaction, neutrophils can potentially release neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) on the surface of an implanted electrospun template, which may be a significant preconditioning event for implantable biomaterials of yet unknown consequences. In this study, we investigated the potential of polydioxanone templates as a delivery vehicle for Cl-amidine, an inhibitor of peptidyl arginase deiminase 4 (PAD4), and if drug elution could attenuate PAD4-mediated NETosis in the vicinity of implanted templates. Electrospun polydioxanone templates were fabricated with distinct architectures, small diameter (0.4 μm) or large diameter (1.8 μm) fibers, and incorporated with 0-5 mg/mL Cl-amidine to examine dose-dependent effects. Acute neutrophil-template interactions were evaluated <i>in vitro</i> with freshly isolated human neutrophils and <i>in vivo</i> with a rat subcutaneous implant model. The <i>in vitro</i> results suggest large diameter templates with 0 mg/mL Cl-amidine significantly attenuate NETosis compared to small diameter templates. As the drug concentration increased, NETosis was significantly decreased on small diameter templates in a dose-dependent manner. The opposite was observed for large diameter templates, indicating multiple mechanisms of NETosis may be regulating neutrophil template preconditioning. Similar results were observed <i>in vivo</i>, verifying local NETosis inhibition by Cl-amidine eluting templates in a physiological environment. Importantly, large diameter templates with Cl-amidine enhanced neutrophil invasion and survival, supporting the potential for long-term modulation of tissue integration and regeneration. This preliminary study demonstrates a novel delivery vehicle for Cl-amidine that can be used to regulate acute NETosis as the potential critical link between the innate immune response, inflammation, and template-guided tissue regeneration.
