2018 
30183745
Prevention of bacterial colonization on non-thermal atmospheric plasma treated surgical sutures for control and prevention of surgical site infections.
Surgical site infections have a remarkable impact on morbidity, extended hospitalization and mortality. Sutures strongly contribute to development of surgical site infections as they are considered foreign material in the human body. Sutures serve as excellent surfaces for microbial adherence and subsequent colonization, biofilm formation and infection on the site of a surgery. Various antimicrobial sutures have been developed to prevent suture-mediated surgical site infection. However, depending on the site of surgery, antimicrobial sutures may remain ineffective, and antimicrobial agents on them might have drawbacks. Plasma, defined as the fourth state of matter, composed of ionized gas, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, free radical and neutrals, draws attention for the control and prevention of hospital-acquired infections due to its excellent antimicrobial activities. In the present study, the efficacy of non-thermal atmospheric plasma treatment for prevention of surgical site infections was investigated. First, contaminated poly (glycolic-co-lactic acid), polyglycolic acid, polydioxanone and poly (glycolic acid-co-caprolactone) sutures were treated with non-thermal atmospheric plasma to eradicate contaminating bacteria like Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. Moreover, sutures were pre-treated with non-thermal atmospheric plasma and then exposed to S. aureus and E. coli. Our results revealed that non-thermal atmospheric plasma treatment effectively eradicates contaminating bacteria on sutures, and non-thermal atmospheric plasma pre-treatment effectively prevents bacterial colonization on sutures without altering their mechanical properties. Chemical characterization of sutures was performed with FT-IR and XPS and results showed that non-thermal atmospheric plasma treatment substantially increased the hydrophilicity of sutures which might be the primary mechanism for the prevention of bacterial colonization. In conclusion, plasma-treated sutures could be considered as novel alternative materials for the control and prevention of surgical site infections.
