2019 Jul
31058569
The Use of Endoclips in Thoracoscopic Correction of Esophageal Atresia: Advantages or Complications?
Thoracoscopic correction of esophageal atresia (EA) with tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) has been increasingly widespread, but is still one of the most advanced pediatric surgical skills. This procedure has a challenging learning curve, and usually initially requires a longer operative time than the open approach; furthermore to perform this intervention, the surgeon must be very experienced in endocorporeal knotting. In our opinion, standardization of the technique and the application of "tricks" (including the use of titanium endoclips for TEF closure) to make surgical steps easier, faster, and safe would be useful to the surgeon and to the patient above all. We present our experience in thoracoscopic treatment of EA/TEF over the past 12 years; during this period, we have treated 32 neonates. We reviewed all patient clinical records evaluating demographics, surgical technique, postoperative period, and long-term follow-up. Thirty-one patients were affected by type C EA (five presented with a long-gap defect); one by type E EA. Mean gestational age was 36 + 5 weeks (29-41). Mean weight at surgery was 2340 g (990-3715 g). Through a transpleural thoracoscopic approach, after Azygos vein division, TEF was closed by sutures (silk/polydioxanone [PDS]) in 4 patients while in the remaining 28 two 5 mm titanium endoclips were applied. Esophageal anastomosis was then performed with 8-12 interrupted 5/0 absorbable sutures. We had two intraoperative complications in endoclips application (migration and misplacement), which were immediately resolved. After a contrast study on sixth to seventh postoperative day (average eighth), in the absence of leakage, oral feeding was started and chest tube removed. Four to six weeks after surgery, patients underwent endoscopic evaluation. At a follow-up of 9 years, we had no postoperative complications due to endoclips: neither TEF recurrence, nor problems due to clips dislocation.Although the benefits of thoracoscopic correction of EA/TEF are still discussed, we agree with this part of recent literature that considers thoracoscopic approach as a feasible, safe, and advantageous alternative to the traditional open approach. We also want to emphasize that in our experience, TEF closure by titanium endoclips is fast, reducing operative time, and effective, with no reported long-term complications in our case series. Overall success rate after clips application is, in our series, 100%. The only limit we have found, above all for low-weight patients, is the diameter of the clip applier which needs a 5 mm access even if the surgeon uses 3 mm operative instruments.
