1997 Jun
9203598
Minimally invasive coronary revascularization through parasternal incisions without cardiopulmonary bypass.
We report the results of minimally invasive coronary revascularization without cardiopulmonary bypass through miniparasternal incisions. This procedure was performed in 40 patients with disease in the left anterior descending, first diagonal, and right coronary arteries. After a 5- to 7-cm left vertical parasternal incision and removal of two costal cartilages, the left internal mammary artery was harvested up to the 2nd rib. The left anterior descending artery was occluded by means of two polydioxanone monofilament sutures. The anastomosis was performed with one 7-0 Prolene suture while the heart was beating. In 4 cases the left internal mammary artery was used as a sequential graft to the left anterior descending artery and the first diagonal artery. In 14 cases the right coronary artery was grafted with the right internal mammary artery through a right parasternal incision. Postoperatively, 95% of the patients underwent angiographic assessment of the anastomoses. We performed 52 anastomoses (34 to the left anterior descending artery, 4 to the first diagonal artery, and 14 to the right coronary artery). The mortality was 0% and the morbidity included postoperative bleeding (5%), acute renal failure (2.5%), atrial fibrillation (2.5%), and wound infection (5%). No patient had ventricular arrhythmias or circulatory problems during or after the operation. Two patients (5%) with right internal mammary artery-to-right coronary artery grafting had graft failure that required a redo operation. Small vertical parasternal incisions may be an alternative approach for single and multiple coronary revascularization, with a low incidence of intraoperative cardiac complications. The application of this approach to the right coronary artery, however, carries additional technical difficulties, and careful patient selection may be required to achieve optimal results.
