2005 Oct
16240081
Proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells cultured onto three different polymers in vitro.
In this study, the osteoinductive and cell-binding properties of three different resorbable polymers were evaluated by human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). MSCs were isolated, expanded, and cultivated onto resorbable D,D,L,L-polylactide (PLLA), collagen I/III, and polygalactin-910/polydioxanone (PGPD) scaffolds in vitro. To evaluate the influence of dexamethasone, ascorbic acid, and beta-glycerolphosphate (DAG) on osteoblast differentiation, MSCs were incubated in a DAG-enriched medium. After a 28-day period in vitro, the cellular loaded polymers were digested enzymatically by papain and HCl. The Ca(2+) content of the biomembranes was evaluated by an o-kresolphthalein-complexon reaction via photometer. A PicoGreen assay was performed for dsDNA quantification. Significant differences between the number of adherent MSCs were documented (collagen > PLLA > PGPD). Compared to the initial number of adherent cells, all biomaterials induced a significant decrease in cellular adherence after 28 days in vitro. The presence of DAG-enriched culture medium stimulated the cellular proliferation for PLLA and slightly for PGPD, whereas cell proliferation was inhibited when MSCs were cultivated onto collagen I/III. In comparison with the control groups, all biomaterials (PLLA, PGPD, and collagen I/III) showed a significant increase in local Ca(2+) accumulation under DAG stimulation after 28 days in vitro. Furthermore, collagen I/III and PLLA scaffolds showed osteoinductive properties without DAG stimulation. These results were verified by immunocytochemical stainings against osteoblast-typical markers (osteopontin and alkaline phosphatase) and completed by calcified matrix detection (von Kossa staining). MSCs were identified by CD105 and CD13 antigen expression. Corresponding to an absence of CD34, CD45, and collagen II expression, we found no chondrogenic or hematopoietic cell differentiation. The results indicate significant differences for the proliferation, differentiation, adherence, and Ca(2+) accumulation between the tested polymers in a MSC culture.
