2017 Sep
28778504
Antimicrobial Efficacy of Triple Antibiotic-eluting Polymer Nanofibers against Multispecies Biofilm.
The elimination of microbial flora in cases of immature permanent teeth with necrotic pulp is both key and a challenging goal for the long-term success of regenerative therapy. Recent research has focused on the development of cell-friendly intracanal drug delivery systems. This in vitro study aimed to investigate the antimicrobial action of 3-dimensional (3D) tubular-shaped triple antibiotic-eluting nanofibrous constructs against a multispecies biofilm on human dentin. Polydioxanone polymer solutions, antibiotic-free or incorporated with metronidazole, ciprofloxacin, and minocycline, were electrospun into 3D tubular-shaped constructs. A multispecies biofilm consisting of Actinomyces naeslundii, Streptococcus sanguinis, and Enterococcus faecalis was forced inside the dentinal tubules via centrifugation in a dentin slice in vitro model. The infected specimens were exposed to 2 experimental groups (ie, 3D tubular-shaped triple antibiotic-eluting constructs and triple antibiotic paste [TAP]) and 2 control groups (7-day biofilm untreated and antibiotic-free 3D tubular-shaped constructs). Biofilm elimination was quantitatively analyzed with confocal laser scanning microscopy. Confocal laser scanning microscopic (CLSM) analysis showed a dense population of viable (green) bacteria adhered to dentin and penetrated into the dentinal tubules. Upon 3D tubular-shaped triple antibiotic-eluting nanofibrous construct exposure, nearly complete elimination of viable bacteria on the dentin surface and inside the dentinal tubules was shown in the CLSM images, which was similar (P < .05) to the bacterial death promoted by the TAP group but significantly greater when compared with both the antibiotic-free 3D tubular-shaped constructs and the control (saline). The proposed 3D tubular-shaped antibiotic-eluting construct showed pronounced antimicrobial effects against the multispecies biofilm tested and therefore holds significant clinical potential as a disinfection strategy before regenerative endodontics.
