NA 
8810025
Evaluation of an autologous tendon graft repair method for gap healing of the deep digital flexor tendon in horses.
A sutured tenorrhaphy technique that incorporated an autologous tendon graft was compared mechanically and histologically with a sutured tenorrhaphy at 6, 12, and 24 weeks after repair. Tenorrhaphy was performed in the forelimb tendon of the deep digital flexor muscle and the graft was taken from the hindlimb tendon of the lateral digital extensor muscle; one forelimb site included the graft, whereas the other forelimb site was not grafted. Tenotomies were made immediately proximal to the insertion of the accessory ligament into the tendon of the deep digital flexor muscle. Grafted and nongrafted tenorrhaphies were sutured with 2 polydioxanone in a modified double locking-loop pattern. Limbs were supported with a bandage and an extended elevated heel shoe that maintained the dorsal hoof wall angle at 70 degrees to 75 degrees; this support was removed at 12 weeks and dorsal hoof wall angle was maintained at 40 degrees to 45 degrees for the remainder of the study. Gap formation (2.5 +/- .3 cm) was evident at all tenorrhaphy sites at 3 days on ultrasound examination. In grafted repairs, the breaking stress was increased (P < .001) between 6 weeks (2.56 +/- .44 MPa) and 12 weeks (17.69 +/- 7.68 MPa), with grafted tendon having a greater breaking stress than nongrafted tendon (8.77 +/- 2.5 MPa; P < .05). No differences in breaking stress were evident at 24 weeks. At 12 weeks, repair tissue in grafted tendon was histologically more mature, had less cellularity, better fibroblast orientation and more homogeneous collagen matrix than nongrafted tendon. Polydioxanone suture was still evident histologically at 24 weeks and was associated with minimal cellular reaction. Incorporation of an autologous tendon graft improved the mechanical properties and histological quality of the repair tissue in equine flexor tenorrhaphies at 12 weeks but not at 24 weeks after repair.
